 After a long period of hard work, the first version of MIOLO 2 is finally
being officially released. This version brings a number of new features and
capabilities, considerably expanding its potential.
    When we work on a Free Software project, beyond hoping that it will be
useful to the community, we also hope that the community will collaborate and
contribute so that the tool can evolve, adding new capabilities, features,
ideas, and so on...
In that regard, Ely Edison Matos from UFJF (Universidade Federal de Juiz de
Fora - MG) played a fundamental role in the evolution of MIOLO. Going far
beyond ideas and suggestions, Ely rolled up his sleeves and worked (and still
works ;-) intensely on the framework...
... a bit of history... in the year 2002, more specifically in the first two
weeks of December,
I conducted a MIOLO training session at UFJF, which was also deploying
Gnuteca (http://www.gnuteca.org.br). At the time, the training was still done
with MIOLO RC 4 which, if my memory serves me right, was released right around
that occasion.
    After the training, several changes were made to the framework by Ely
and his team, and many of them were incorporated into versions RC 5 and
Final 1.0. However, many others could not be introduced at those times,
which was one of the reasons that led to the emergence of the "MIOLO-UFJF"
version, which maintained some distinct characteristics from the "official"
MIOLO version.
    About a year and a half ago, we resumed exchanging ideas with the goal of
merging the two versions, since the objective for both of us was to avoid
having a fork of the original project, and instead have a single tool on
which we could focus our efforts and evolve together.
    In addition to incorporating the changes made by Ely and his team, I
already had a number of ideas
to be implemented in MIOLO 2. Therefore, instead of implementing the changes
in the official version of MIOLO, we chose to use it as the base
for MIOLO 2, since it was easier
to implement only the new features rather than having to also incorporate
the MIOLO-UFJF modifications.
    Basically, that is how the work on version 2 began. I already had
several points to be changed in the new MIOLO (renaming classes,
restructuring and organizing classes according to services, adopting the
widget concept so that components could be grouped together, providing more
flexibility regarding presentation, also drawing on some ideas seen in other
frameworks, and so on...) and since Ely was the one who had the knowledge of
the changes made in MIOLO-UFJF, much of the work on MIOLO 2 was carried out
by him.
    Currently, in addition to being used at SOLIS, there is also a developer
community in Juiz de Fora that is already using the new version intensively,
and because of that, even in Beta, this version of MIOLO is already quite
stable.
    This new version brings a number of new features, including the concept
of Controls/Widgets, changes in theme rendering that allow the same content
to be generated in HTML, XHTML, and so on... simply by creating an
appropriate method. Another important addition is the persistence layer.
Overall, in addition to new classes and capabilities being created, the
existing MIOLO classes underwent some reorganization in order to group them
into separate files according to their functionalities.
For example, the <miolo>/classes/security directory holds the security-related
functionalities, and so on.
    One of the main goals in this new phase of the project is to build
comprehensive documentation that makes life easier for programmers who are
just getting started and having their first contact with MIOLO.
There is a lot to be done, and we invite everyone who can spare a little of
their time to contribute so that we can improve the tool -- after all, any
help is welcome. :-)
    For information about installation, see the INSTALL file.

                      Vilson Cristiano Gartner
                        vilson@miolo.org.br
                     MIOLO Project Coordinator
		           October/2005
